# CPSC304-Project
Postal Service Database

We will be using PHP/Apache + MySQL while implementing our database.

The domain that weare modeling is a mailing service domain, the kind of information that isstored in the database of a postal service.

There will be two different interfaces for two classes of users of the system: customers and employees. Each customer will be able to check the status of their sent items and expected delivery date using the TrackingNumber they have received. Customers will have the functionality to change delivery method of a shipment to express/regular if the item has not been mailed yet (waiting in storage).Fee difference will be applied accordingly, and only credit cards can be used for changed delivery methods.  The employees will use the system to send new items (add the information to database), checkstatus of a shipment, access information regarding the shipment (Date sent,ReceiptNumber, TrackingNumber and etc.), and decide what to do with items in storage offices (send, hold).  
 
The specification of the mailing service we are designing stores information about Items(ItemNumber, Fee, Size), Offices (BranchNumber, Name, Location, PhoneNumber),Shipment (IssueNumber, TrackingNumber, Destination), shipmentMehtod(Express,Regular) and Payment (ReceiptNumber, Amount). A shipment will hold information about the item that is being sent, the date that it is being sent on, shipment method and payment. Only Regular Offices can receive the shipment and process it. Storage type offices can only store items. Sent and not picked up items will be forwarded to storages.  
 
Expected work division: We will all decide about the final form and functionalities of the system together. Team member Asif Mammadov will be doing most of the GUI work.Tunjay Jafarli and Rafael Malcolm will be dealing with implementation of system functionalities. Tom Fung will be populating the databases. However, all of these is subject to change. If later on we realize that, member X has a lot of work to do while member Y has significantly less, the X’s work will be divided into smaller parts, and some of the parts will be handed in to Y to complete.This can happen while implementing the functionalities because sometimes they tend to be a lot more complicated than what you expect. We will be holding group meetings to measure our progress, solve the arising issue/problems and help each other if necessary.
